<h1>Proactive callback</h1>
<p>This project replicates popular functionality that automates returning a queued callback just before an agent is available to avoid unwanted callbacks and agent inefficiency by waiting for caller pickup. This project relies exclusively on Genesys Cloud for this functionality, using a combination of various flows, data actions, and an agentless outbound campaign.</p>
<p>Callers will be given an adjusted EWT that accounts for any waiting callbacks. If a callback is accepted, the call will be transferred to an inbound flow, which will trigger a workflow flow type and end the call. This results in a flow-out rather than an abandoned call in the originally targeted queue analytics.</p>
<p>The workflow will create a new callback interaction in a queue used exclusively as a holding bin that has no agents assigned nor receives any other interactions. It will then delay for the adjusted EWT of the originally queued call. Once the EWT delay expires, the workflow will push a contact into a contact list associated with an always running agentless campaign in order to process the callback.</p>
<p>The contact list will receive, at minimum, the phone number to call, any captured name of the caller, the delay time and the conversationId of the holding bin callback. The always running campaign will automate the outbound call and, on connection, route to an outbound flow for processing. The outbound flow will announce the return call and ask if the caller still wants to speak with an agent. If yes, the call is transferred to the target queue with a priority value equal to the delay. Otherwise, the caller is thanked for using the service and the call ended. In either case, the holding bin callback will be disconnected.
<p>This repo contains a zip file with data action and flow files that can be manually imported and instructions on configuring the solution. It also contains configuration files and a powershell script that will automate the majority of solution deployment. This script is dependent upon the Genesys Cloud CLI and Archy, two developer tools for code automation. It uses their default environmental configuration. If using the script, follow these steps:
<ul>
<li>In data.json, replace the tag integrationName with the name of a working Genesys Cloud data actions integration.</li>
<li>In data.json, replace the tag edgeGroupId with the Id of the Edge Group you want the agentless outbound campaign to use.</li>
<li>In data.json, replace the callerIdName and callerIdNumber tags with proper values you want used to for the outbound calls.</li>
<li>In data.json, replace the tag targetQueueName with the name of the originally targeted queue.</li>
<li>Run the powershell script deployProactiveCallbacks.ps1. It assumes both the CLI and Archy are in the PATH.</li>